---
layout: post
title: "CMSIS-RTOS"
description: "CMSIS RTOS 개인 공부 로그"
date: 2018-07-25
tags: [CMSIS, FreeRTOS, Real-Time System, Embedded Systems, STM32F469NGHx]
comments: true
share: false
---

개인 공부 용도임. 

--- 
## 1. CMSIS-RTOS

What is that?: The CMSIS-RTOS is a common API for Real-Time operating systems. It provides a standardized programming interface that is portable to many RTOS and enables therefore software templates, middleware, libraries, and other components that can work across supported the RTOS systems.

## 2. Thread

The Thread Management function group allow defining, creating, and controlling thread functions in the system. The function main is a special thread function that is started at system initialization and has the initial priority osPriorityNormal.

A Thread can be in the following states:

* RUNNING: The thread that is currently running is in the RUNNING state. Only one thread at a time can be in this state.
* READY: Threads which are ready to run are in the READY state. Once the RUNNING thread has terminated or is WAITING the next READY thread with the highest priority becomes the RUNNING thread.
* WAITING: Threads that are waiting for an event to occur are in the WAITING state.
* INACTIVE: Threads that are not created or terminated are in the INACTIVE state. These threads typically consume no system resources. 

![Thread States] (../images/thread_status.png)


A call to osDelay will put the calling thread in the WAITING state for the specified amount of milliseconds. During this time, the RTOS scheduler will run other threads in the READY state.

---